CISCO NETWORK BASICS 
 exploratory view of networks, the devices that comprise them, how they work, and basic troubleshooting tools and techniques

 LO
 Explain important concepts in network communication.
Explain network types, components, and connections.
Configure mobile devices for wireless access.
Configure an integrated wireless router and wireless client to connect securely to the internet.
Explain the importance of standards and protocols in network communications.
Describe common network media.
Explain how communication occurs on Ethernet networks.
Explain the features of an IP address.
Explain how IPv4 addresses are used in network communication and segmentation.
Explain features of IPv6 addressing.
Configure a DHCP server.
Explain how routers connect networks together.
Explain how ARP enables communication on a network.
Create a fully connected LAN.
Explain how clients access internet services.
Explain the function of common application layer services.
Use various tools to test and troubleshoot network connectivity

### network - types concept of a network 
1. internet - world wide, collection of interconnected networks, cooperating with each other to exchange info unsing common standards,
     via telephone wires, fiber-optic cables, wireless transmission, satelitte links, all the internet dest are connected to local networkk
2. local network - network of 2 - thousands and hundred of devices
  - home (SOHO) - small 
  - business/schools - medium/large

#### types of devices
- mobile, watch, tv
- home, security system, appliances, tv, gam e
- cars, Sensors,  RFID Tags,(placed in or on objects to track them or monitor sensors for many conditions)
- medical devices

### data transmission - describe network data 

#### data 
- volenteer data
- inferred - generated by your activties (travel from 1 place to another)
- observed data - transmitted by carrier
- bit and byte - all data are converted to binary for computers to process


  
### bandwidth and throughout - explain network transmission speed and caps
